WML Training (#34)
IBM/MAX-ResNet-50: training/README.md

## Train the Model with Your Own Data

This document provides instructions to train the model on Watson Machine Learning, an offering of IBM Cloud. The instructions in this document assume that you already have an IBM Cloud account. If not, please create an [IBM Cloud](https://ibm.biz/Bdz2XM) account. 

- [Prepare Data for Training](#prepare-data-for-training)
- [Train the Model](#train-the-model)
- [Rebuild the Model Serving Microservice](#rebuild-the-model-serving-microservice)

## Prepare Data for Training

To prepare your data for training complete the steps listed in [data_preparation/README.md](data_preparation/README.md).

## Train the Model

In this document `$MODEL_REPO_HOME_DIR` refers to the cloned MAX model repository directory, e.g.
`/users/hi_there/MAX-Object-Detector`. 

### Install Local Prerequisites

Open a terminal window, change dir into `$MODEL_REPO_HOME_DIR/training` and install the Python prerequisites. (Model training requires Python 3.6 or above.)

   ```
   $ cd training/

   $ pip install -r requirements.txt
    ... 
   ```
### Use Pre Trained Weights

> If you wish to perform transfer learning or resume from a previous checkpoint, place the checkpoint files in the `$MODEL_REPO_HOME_DIR/training/sample_training_data/initial_model/` folder. <Any other info about the nature of ckpt files or any specific requirements are listed here>.

Reviewer: Do we need to remove the "<Any other info ..."?

### Customize Model Specific Parameters

> <Any model specific changes which the user can make go here>

Reviewer: Same here, removing <Any ...?

   MacOS example:

   ```
   $ export ML_INSTANCE=...
   $ export ML_APIKEY=...
   $ export ML_ENV=...
   $ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
   $ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
   ```
   
   > The training script `wml_train.py` requires these environment variables. If they are not set, model training cannot be started.

### Train the Model Using Watson Machine Learning

1. Verify that the training preparation steps complete successfully. Replace `<model-name.yaml>` with your configuration file.

   ```
    $ python wml_train.py <...-training-config.yaml> prepare
     ...
     # --------------------------------------------------------
     # Checking environment variables ...
     # --------------------------------------------------------
     ...
   ```

   If preparation completed successfully:

    - The required environment variables are defined.
    - Training data is present in the Cloud Object Storage bucket that Watson Machine Learning will access to train the model.

>     - The model training code is packaged in a ZIP file named `<model-name>-model-building-code.zip` that Watson Machine Learning uses to train the model.

Reviewer: `<model-name>` should be replaced with the actual model name here?

   After training has completed the training log file `training-log.txt` is downloaded along with the trained model artifacts.

   ```
   ...
   # --------------------------------------------------------
   # Downloading training log file "training-log.txt" ...
   # --------------------------------------------------------
   Downloading "training-.../training-log.txt" from bucket "..." to "training_output/training-log.txt"
   ..
   # --------------------------------------------------------
   # Downloading trained model archive "model_training_output.tar.gz" ...
   # --------------------------------------------------------
   Downloading "training-.../model_training_output.tar.gz" from bucket "..." to "training_output/model_training_output.tar.gz"
   ....................................................................................
   ```

   > If training was terminated early due to an error only the log file is downloaded. Inspect it to identify the problem.

   ```
   $ ls training_output/
     model_training_output.tar.gz
     trained_model/
     training-log.txt 
   ```

1. Return to the parent directory

### Rebuild the Model-Serving Microservice

> The model-serving microservice out of the box serves the pre-trained model which was trained on [insert_standard_dataset_here](dataset_URL). To serve the model trained on your dataset you have to rebuild the Docker image:

Reviewer: dataset details missing here?

## How to Train Image Classification Model Using Your Own Data

- [Collect Data for Training](#collect-data-for-training)
- [Train the Model](#train-the-model)
- [Rebuild the Model-Serving Microservice](#rebuild-the-model-serving-microservice)

## Collect Data for Training

> Collect RGB images encoded as jpeg or png containing objects that need to be classified. Make sure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Collect RGB images encoded as `jpeg` or `png` containing objects to be classified. Make sure
```

the training images have large variations in angle, resolution, lighting and background so that they generalize 

> well with the test data. Using 100s or 1000s of images would provide better results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
well with the test data. A large number of images (hundreds or thousands) will provide better results.
```

Reviewer: WE can perhaps be even more specific that it's "a reasonably large number _per class_" - because for 2 classes 100 may be fine. For 100 classes, 100 is not fine...

    ... 
   ```
   
To test the model training process, use data from `/sample_training_data` and skip data preparation step.

### Run the Setup Script

#### Purpose

In order to run the model training script two sets of environment variables need to be defined:

##### 1. Watson Machine Learning

- ML_USERNAME
- ML_PASSWORD
- ML_ENV
- ML_INSTANCE

##### 2. Cloud Object Storage

- AWS_ACCESS_KEY
- AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

The wml_setup.py script (among other things) ensures that these variables are properly defined 
and YAML file is properly configured. 

Input training data bucket, result bucket, local directory from where data will be uploaded and GPU 
configuration are the details that will be updated in YAML file.

The main menu options vary depending on which environment variables are set when wml_setup.py is run.

#### Steps

1. Locate the training configuration file. It is named `...-training-config.yaml`.

   ```

   $ ls *.yaml
     <...-training-config.yaml> 
   ```

2. Configure your environment for model training.

   ```
    $ python wml_setup.py <...-training-config.yaml> 
     ...
   ```
   
3. Once setup is completed, define the displayed environment variables.

>    MacOS example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   MacOS/Linux example:
```

   ```
   $ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
   $ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
   $ export ML_INSTANCE=...
   $ export ML_USERNAME=...
   $ export ML_PASSWORD=...
   $ export ML_ENV=...
   ```
   
   Also, note the YAML configuration.
   
   ```
       ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       NEW YAML CONFIGURATION VALUES
       ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       input_bucket  : resnet50-input
       local directory  : .../inp_obj
       result bucket  : resnet50-output
       compute  : k80x4
   ```

### Train the Model Using Watson Machine Learning

#### Purpose

- To initiate training in Watson Machine Learning.
- To download model and log files.

> - Place downloaded files in parent directory for the docker to pick up.

Reviewer 2: Does this make sense?
```suggestion
- Move the downloaded files to the parent directory so they are included in the Docker image
```

   $ pip install -r requirements.txt
    ... 
   ```
   
To test the model training process, use data from `/sample_training_data` and skip data preparation step.

### Run the Setup Script

#### Purpose

In order to run the model training script two sets of environment variables need to be defined:

##### 1. Watson Machine Learning

> - ML_USERNAME

Reviewer: I believe we're using APIKEY for WML credentials (no longer username + password)?

     <...-training-config.yaml> 
   ```

2. Configure your environment for model training.

   ```
    $ python wml_setup.py <...-training-config.yaml> 
     ...
   ```
   
3. Once setup is completed, define the displayed environment variables.

   MacOS example:

   ```
   $ export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=...
   $ export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...

>    $ export ML_INSTANCE=...

Reviewer: same comment applies here as per above

   $ export ML_USERNAME=...
   $ export ML_PASSWORD=...
   $ export ML_ENV=...
   ```
   
   Also, note the YAML configuration.
   
   ```
       ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       NEW YAML CONFIGURATION VALUES
       ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

>        input_bucket  : resnet50-input

Reviewer: should bucket names be cleaned up here?

Author: This is an example to demonstrate the output after running the setup script. It does not point to YAML file.

       local directory  : .../inp_obj
       result bucket  : resnet50-output

>        compute  : k80x4

Reviewer: k80 default?
